Add blog post on Full Stack Java (#891)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-10-16-full-stack-java.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Full Stack Java with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster"
author: matt-raible
by: advocate
communities: [java,javascript]
description: "This tutorial shows you how to be a full stack Java developer with React and Spring Boot."
tags: [java, full-stack, react, spring-boot, jhipster]
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
---

If you search for "Full Stack Java" on the internet, you'll likely find a lot of recruiting, courses, and jobs. Being a full stack developer can be exciting because you're learning and using a bunch of technologies. It also pays pretty well. Today, I'm going to show you how you can be a full stack Java developer with Spring Boot, React, and JHipster.

> If you haven't heard of JHipster, boy do I have a treat for you! JHipster started as a Yeoman application generator back in 2013 and has grown to become a development platform. It allows you to quickly generate, develop, and deploy modern web apps and microservice architectures. Today, I'll show you how to build a Flickr clone with it and lock it down with OAuth and OpenID Connect (OIDC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't heard of JHipster, boy do I have a treat for you! JHipster started as a Yeoman application generator back in 2013 and has grown to become a development platform. It allows you to quickly generate, develop, and deploy modern web apps and microservice architectures. Today, I'll show you how to build a Flickr clone with JHipster and lock it down with OAuth and OpenID Connect (OIDC).
```
replaces the minor ambiguity of "it"

- [Java 11+](https://sdkman.io)

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## Full Stack Development with React and Spring Boot

One of the easiest ways to get started with React is by using [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/) (CRA). You install it locally, then run `create-react-app <project>` to generate a React application with minimal dependencies. It uses webpack under-the-covers to build the project, launch a web server, and run its tests.

Spring Boot has a similar tool, called [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/). Spring Initializer is a bit different than CRA because it's a website (and API) that you can create applications with.

Today, I'll show you how to build a Flickr clone with React and Spring Boot. However, I'm going to cheat. Rather than building everything using the aforementioned tools, I'm going to use JHipster. JHipster is an application generator that initially only supported Angular and Spring Boot. Now it supports Angular, React, and Vue for the frontend. JHipster also has support for [Kotlin, Micronaut, Quarkus, .NET, and Node.js](https://www.jhipster.tech/modules/official-blueprints/) on the backend.

> In this tutorial, we'll use React since it seems to be [the most popular](https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?q=angular,react,vuejs) frontend framework. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we'll use React since it seems to be [the most popular](https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?q=angular,react,vuejs) frontend framework nowadays. 
```
to qualify the 'most popular' superlative

| Development database? | `H2 with disk-based persistence` |
| Which cache? | `Ehcache` |
| Use Hibernate 2nd level cache? | `Yes` |
| Maven or Gradle? | `Maven` |
| Use the JHipster Registry? | `No` |
| Other technologies? | `<blank>` |
| Client framework? | `React` |
| Admin UI? | `Yes` |
| Bootswatch theme? | `United` > `Dark` |
| Enable i18n? | `Yes` |
| Native language of application? | `English` |
| Additional languages? | `Portuguese (Brazilian)` |
| Additional testing frameworks? | `Cypress` |
| Install other generators? | `No` |

Press `Enter` and JHipster will create your app in the current directory and run `npm install` to install all the dependencies specified in `package.json`.

### Verify Everything Works with Cypress and Keycloak

When you choose OAuth 2.0 and OIDC for authentication, the users are stored outside of the application, rather than in it. You need to configure an identity provider (IdP) to store your users and allow your app to retrieve information about them. By default, JHipster ships with a Keycloak file for Docker Compose. A default set of users and groups is imported at startup, and it has a client registered for your JHipster app.

> Here's what the keycloak.yml looks like in your app's src/main/docker directory:

Author: ```suggestion
Here's what the `keycloak.yml` looks like in your app's `src/main/docker` directory:
```

```yaml

> # This configuration is intended for development purpose, it's **your** responsibility to harden it for production

Reviewer: is there a way to force a linebreak after "your responsibility" on the comment so the reader doesn't have to horizontal scroll to read the whole sentence?

Author: I could, or I could remove this line because it's not that relevant to this example. Which would you prefer?

  keycloak:
    image: jboss/keycloak:14.0.0
    command:
      [
        '-b',
        '0.0.0.0',
        '-Dkeycloak.migration.action=import',
        '-Dkeycloak.migration.provider=dir',
        '-Dkeycloak.migration.dir=/opt/jboss/keycloak/realm-config',
        '-Dkeycloak.migration.strategy=OVERWRITE_EXISTING',
        '-Djboss.socket.binding.port-offset=1000',
        '-Dkeycloak.profile.feature.upload_scripts=enabled',
      ]
    volumes:
      - ./realm-config:/opt/jboss/keycloak/realm-config
    environment:
      - KEYCLOAK_USER=admin
      - KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD=admin
      - DB_VENDOR=h2
    # If you want to expose these ports outside your dev PC,
    # remove the "127.0.0.1:" prefix
    ports:
      - 127.0.0.1:9080:9080
      - 127.0.0.1:9443:9443
      - 127.0.0.1:10990:10990
```

Start Keycloak with the following command in a terminal window.
[Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) if you don't already have it.

```shell
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/keycloak.yml up
```

You can verify everything works by starting your app with Maven:

```shell
./mvnw
```

Open another terminal to run the Cypress tests:

```shell
npm run e2e
```

> You'll should see output like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see output like the following:
```
grammar

## Test Your Full Stack Java App with Cypress

JHipster has Auth0 support built-in, so you can specify your credentials for Cypress tests and automate your UI testing!

To do this, specify the credentials for the Auth0 user you just created and run `npm run e2e`.

```shell
export CYPRESS_E2E_USERNAME=<new-username>
export CYPRESS_E2E_PASSWORD=<new-password>
npm run e2e
```

Everything should pass in around a minute.

```shell
       Spec                                              Tests  Passing  Failing  Pending  Skipped
  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ ✔  administration/administration.spec.      00:22        5        5        -        -        - │
  │    ts                                                                                          │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ✔  All specs passed!                        00:22        5        5        -        -        -

Execution time: 59 s.
```

## Create Entities to allow CRUD on Photos

> I've talked a lot about how to secure your application, but we haven't done anything with photos! JHipster has a JDL (JHipster Domain Language) feature that allows you to model the data in your app, and generate entities from it. You can use its [JDL Studio](https://start.jhipster.tech/jdl-studio/) to do this online and save it locally once you've finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I've talked a lot about how to secure your application, but we haven't done anything with photos! JHipster has a JDL (JHipster Domain Language) feature that allows you to model the data in your app, and generate entities from it. You can use the [JDL Studio](https://start.jhipster.tech/jdl-studio/) to do this online and save it locally once you've finished.
```
one less "it" to reduce potential confusion

> My data model for this app has an `Album`, `Photo`, and `Tag` entities and sets up relationships between them. Below is a screenshot of what it looks like in JDL Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My data model for this app has `Album`, `Photo`, and `Tag` entities and sets up relationships between them. Below is a screenshot of what it looks like in JDL Studio.
```
removed "an" because entities is plural

{% img blog/full-stack-java/jdl-studio.png alt:"JDL Studio" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Copy the JDL below and save it in a `flickr2.jdl` file in the root directory of your project.

```
entity Album {
  title String required
  description TextBlob
  created Instant
}

entity Photo {
  title String required
  description TextBlob
  image ImageBlob required
  height Integer
  width Integer
  taken Instant
  uploaded Instant
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Album{user(login)} to User
  Photo{album(title)} to Album
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Photo{tag(name)} to Tag{photo}
}

paginate Album with pagination
paginate Photo, Tag with infinite-scroll
```

> You can generate entities and CRUD code (Java for Spring Boot; TypeScript and JSX for React), use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can generate entities and [CRUD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete) code (Java for Spring Boot; TypeScript and JSX for React) by using the following command:
```
smoother sentence flow , added link to definition of CRUD.

        InputStream inputStream = new ByteArrayInputStream(data2);
        BufferedInputStream bis = new BufferedInputStream(inputStream);
        Metadata metadata = ImageMetadataReader.readMetadata(bis);
        ExifSubIFDDirectory directory = metadata.getFirstDirectoryOfType(ExifSubIFDDirectory.class);

        if (directory != null) {
            Date date = directory.getDateDigitized();
            if (date != null) {
                photo.setTaken(date.toInstant());
            }
        }

        if (photo.getTaken() == null) {
            log.debug("Photo EXIF date digitized not available, setting taken on date to now...");
            photo.setTaken(Instant.now());
        }

        photo.setUploaded(Instant.now());

        JpegDirectory jpgDirectory = metadata.getFirstDirectoryOfType(JpegDirectory.class);
        if (jpgDirectory != null) {
            photo.setHeight(jpgDirectory.getImageHeight());
            photo.setWidth(jpgDirectory.getImageWidth());
        }

        return photo;
    }
    ...
}
```

Since you're extracting the information, you can remove the fields from the UI and tests so the user cannot set these values.

> In `src/main/webapp/app/entities/photo/photo-update.tsx`, add `metadata` and `metadataRows` variables, and logic that makes them hidden when adding a photo and read-only when updating one. Find the first line of the code block below and replace that line with the following code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `src/main/webapp/app/entities/photo/photo-update.tsx`, add `metadata` and `metadataRows` variables, as well as logic that makes them hidden when adding a photo, and read-only when updating one. Find the first line of the code block below and replace that line with the following code:
```
clarifying punctuation.

      </Label>
      <AvInput
        id="photo-taken"
        type="datetime-local"
        className="form-control"
        name="taken"
        readOnly
        value={isNew ? null : convertDateTimeFromServer(this.props.photoEntity.taken)}
      />
    </AvGroup>
    <AvGroup>
      <Label id="uploadedLabel" for="uploaded">
        <Translate contentKey="galleryApp.photo.uploaded">Uploaded</Translate>
      </Label>
      <AvInput
        id="photo-uploaded"
        type="datetime-local"
        className="form-control"
        name="uploaded"
        readOnly
        value={isNew ? null : convertDateTimeFromServer(this.props.photoEntity.uploaded)}
      />
    </AvGroup>
  </div>
);
const metadataRows = isNew ? '' : metadata;
```

Then, in the `return` block, remove the JSX between the `image` property and `album` property and replace it with `{metadataRows}`.

```html
    <input id="file_image" type="file" onChange={this.onBlobChange(true, 'image')} accept="image/*" />
  </AvGroup>
</AvGroup>
{metadataRows}
<AvGroup>
  <Label for="album.title">
    <Translate contentKey="galleryApp.photo.album">Album</Translate>
  </Label>
```

> //todo: update for Cypress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//todo: update for Cypress
```
is this todo still pending? just checking :)

Author: Yes. I want to make sure and QA after the next version of JHipster is released (7.2.1 or 7.3.0). This is a reminder.

Author: QA is complete and the app has been recreated.

}

setTakenInput(taken) {
  this.takenInput.sendKeys(taken);
}

getTakenInput() {
  return this.takenInput.getAttribute('value');
}

setUploadedInput(uploaded) {
  this.uploadedInput.sendKeys(uploaded);
}

getUploadedInput() {
  return this.uploadedInput.getAttribute('value');
}
```

Stop your Maven process, run `npm webapp:build`, start Maven again, and run `npm run e2e` to make sure everything still works. 

**NOTE**: If you experience authentication errors in your Cypress tests, it's likely because you've violated Auth0's [Rate Limit Policy](https://auth0.com/docs/support/policies/rate-limit-policy). As a workaround, I recommend you use Keycloak for Cypress tests. You can do this by opening a new terminal window and starting your app there (without running `source .auth0.env`).

If you upload an image you took with your smartphone, the height, width, and taken values should all be populated. If they're not, chances are your image doesn't have the data in it.

> Need some sample photos with EXIF data? You can download pictures of my 1966 VW Bus from [an album on Flickr](https://www.flickr.com/photos/mraible/albums/72157689027458320).

## Add a React Photo Gallery

> You've added metadata extraction to your backend, but your photos still display in a list rather than in a grid (like Flickr). To fix that, you can use [React Photo Gallery](https://github.com/neptunian/react-photo-gallery) component. Install it using npm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've added metadata extraction to your backend, but your photos still display in a list rather than in a grid (like Flickr). To fix that, you can use the [React Photo Gallery](https://github.com/neptunian/react-photo-gallery) component. Install it using npm:
```
adding an article

```bash
npm i react-photo-gallery@8
```

In `src/main/webapp/app/entities/photo/photo.tsx`, add an import for `Gallery`:

```ts
import Gallery from 'react-photo-gallery';
```

Then add a `photoSet` variable in the `render()` method, and the `<Gallery>` component right after the closing `</h2>`.

```ts
render() {
  const { photoList, match } = this.props;
  const photoSet = photoList.map(photo => ({
    src: `data:${photo.imageContentType};base64,${photo.image}`,
    width: photo.height > photo.width ? 3 : photo.height === photo.width ? 1 : 4,
    height: photo.height > photo.width ? 4 : photo.height === photo.width ? 1 : 3
  }));

  return (
    <div>
      <h2 id="photo-heading">
        ...
      </h2>
      <Gallery photos={photoSet} />
      ...
  );
}
```

> Since you only modified the front end code, you can run `npm start` to start an instance of webpack-dev-server that proxies requests to the backend and auto-refreshes your browser (using [Browsersync](https://browsersync.io/)) every time you change any React files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since you only modified the front-end code, you can run `npm start` to start an instance of webpack-dev-server that proxies requests to the backend and auto-refreshes your browser (using [Browsersync](https://browsersync.io/)) every time you change any React files.
```
a fussy hypen for 'front-end' used as a modifier

Log in and navigate to **Entities** > **Photos** in the top nav bar. You should be able to upload photos and see the results in a nice grid at the top of the list.

> //todo: update screenshot during QA

Reviewer: noting the todo here

{% img blog/full-stack-java/photo-gallery.png alt:"Gallery with Photos" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> //todo: update GitHub links

Reviewer: noting the todo

Author: Fixed now!

You can also add a "lightbox" feature to the grid so you can click on photos and zoom in. The [React Photo Gallery docs](https://neptunian.github.io/react-photo-gallery/) show how to do this. I've integrated it into the example for this post, but I won't show the code here for the sake of brevity. You can see the [final `photo.tsx` with Lightbox added on GitHub](https://github.com/oktadeveloper/okta-react-photo-gallery-example/blob/master/src/main/webapp/app/entities/photo/photo.tsx) or a [diff of the changes necessary](https://github.com/oktadeveloper/okta-react-photo-gallery-example/commit/47f9ceab2b00f1d7f41d286686c9159f79decc11).

> ## Make Your Full Stack Java App into a PWA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Make Your Full Stack Java App Into a PWA
```
per InfoQ

```java
http.requiresChannel(channel -> channel
    .requestMatchers(r -> r.getHeader("X-Forwarded-Proto") != null).requiresSecure());
```

The [workbox-webpack-plugin](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/modules/workbox-webpack-plugin) is configured already for generating a service worker, but it only works when running your app with a production profile. This is nice because it means your data isn't cached in the browser when you're developing.

To register a service worker, open `src/main/webapp/index.html` and uncomment the following block of code.

```html
<script>
  if ('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
    navigator.serviceWorker.register('./service-worker.js').then(function () {
      console.log('Service Worker Registered');
    });
  }
</script>
```

The final feature &mdash; a webapp manifest &mdash; is included at `src/main/webapp/manifest.webapp`. It defines an app name, colors, and icons. You might want to adjust these to fit your app.

## Deploy Your React + Spring Boot App to Heroku

> To deploy your app to Heroku, you'll first need to install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli). You can confirm its installed by running `heroku --version`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy your app to Heroku, you'll first need to install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli). You can confirm it's installed by running `heroku --version`.
```
its -> it's

```bash
heroku config:set \
  SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_PROVIDER_OIDC_ISSUER_URI="https://<your-auth0-domain>/" \
  SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_ID="<your-client-id>" \
  SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET="<your-client-secret>" \
  JHIPSTER_SECURITY_OAUTH2_AUDIENCE="https://<your-auth0-domain>/api/v2/"
```

Then, log in to your Auth0 account, navigate to your app, and add your Heroku URLs as valid redirect URIs:

- Allowed Callback URLs: `https://flickr-2.herokuapp.com/login/oauth2/code/oidc`
- Allowed Logout URLs: `https://flickr-2.herokuapp.com`

After Heroku restarts your app, open it, and log in.

{% img blog/full-stack-java/app-on-heroku.png alt:"Running on Heroku!" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Then, test it with [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/) (using the Lighthouse tab in Chrome developer tools). Looks pretty good, eh?! 💯

{% img blog/full-stack-java/lighthouse-score.png alt:"Lighthouse Score 💯" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

## Learn More About Full Stack Java Development

> This tutorial shows you how to streamline full stack Java development with JHipster. You developed a working application with a React frontend and a Spring Boot backend. You can find the app created in this tutorial on GitHub, in the [auth0-full-stack-java-example](https://github.com/oktadev/auth0-full-stack-java-example) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to streamline full-stack Java development with JHipster. You developed a working application with a React frontend and a Spring Boot backend. You can find the app created in this tutorial on GitHub, in the [auth0-full-stack-java-example](https://github.com/oktadev/auth0-full-stack-java-example) repository.
```
fussy hyphen for readability

Author: I'm OK with this change, but wanted to note that I do use "Full Stack" (with no hyphen) in the title and many headings.

> Since you didn't learn a lot about coding in Java, React, or Spring Boot, here are some helpful resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since I didn't show you a lot about coding in Java, React, or Spring Boot, here are some helpful resources for that.
```
clarifying

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "Full Stack Java with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster"

Reviewer 2: the title is good, but I think we need to think what is this article about and put it in the title. Is the article about being a full stack java dev, or is it about creating an app with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster. Can only Java devs take something from this article, or maybe React or JS devs also can?

What do you think about this title:
Creating a Gallery app with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster.

Author: On the Okta developer blog, we try to stay away from "ing" words and would use something like "Create" instead. I'm not sure if Auth0 has similar suggestions. We also have a headline analyzer based on https://coschedule.com/headline-analyzer. 

- Creating a Gallery app with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster: 53
- Full Stack Java with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster: 59
- Full Stack Fun with React, Spring Boot, and JHipster: 63

I can give you access to the tool we use if you like. We also tend to optimize for SEO using Google's Keyword Planner. Here are some numbers about traffic worldwide:

`Term: avg monthly searches`
- react spring boot: 1300
- full stack java: 3600
- java full stack developer: 8100
- spring react: 18000

Should we optimize for 2-3 of these keywords?

Author: If we change the title, we should also change the URL to match, at least for this post that will (eventually) be syndicated on the OktaDev blog.

Reviewer 2: Oh okay, if that's what you do in Okta blog, let's keep it this way ;)

author: matt-raible
by: advocate
communities: [java,javascript]

> description: "This tutorial shows you how to be a full stack Java developer with React and Spring Boot."

Reviewer 2: there is a similar issue with this description as in the title. I think this tutorial shows rather how to create a fullstack app with Jhipster/React/SpringBoot rather than how to be a full stack java dev, because I think it requires a lot more than this article ;)

Author: Fixed.

tags: [java, full-stack, react, spring-boot, jhipster]
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
---

> If you search for "Full Stack Java" on the internet, you'll likely find a lot of recruiting, courses, and jobs. Being a full stack developer can be exciting because you're learning and using a bunch of technologies. It also pays pretty well. Today, I'm going to show you how you can be a full stack Java developer with Spring Boot, React, and JHipster.

Reviewer 2: I have doubts related to the second sentence, "Being a full stack developer can be exciting because you're learning and using a bunch of technologies". Those points that you mentioned relates not only to a full stack dev, but also dev focused on backend or frontend only ;) How about we will be here a little bit more precise.  I think being a full stack can be exciting because you can create your own app that consists of backend and frontend all by your own. There is some algorithm work (backend) as well as styling etc. What do you think about those points?

Author: Good points. I updated it.

> If you haven't heard of JHipster, boy do I have a treat for you! JHipster started as a Yeoman application generator back in 2013 and has grown to become a development platform. It allows you to quickly generate, develop, and deploy modern web apps and microservice architectures. Today, I'll show you how to build a Flickr clone with JHipster and lock it down with OAuth and OpenID Connect (OIDC).

Reviewer 2: I think this section might be moved to Get Started with Hipster section, I think it suits better in that place. Also, when we refer to JHipster for the first time, let's link to its main page

Author: I like it.

**Prerequisites:**

- [Node.js 14+](https://nodejs.org/)

> - [Java 11+](https://sdkman.io)

Reviewer 2: Let's add here which distribution you suggest to use. There are a bunch, so a reader might be lost which to choose

> **Table of Contents**{: .hide }

Reviewer 2: Just to be sure, shouldn't this be deleted?

Author: Yes, this should be deleted when transferring the markdown from this PR to the Auth0 blog. On the OktaDev blog, we need the first element for some reason. I forget exactly why, but I remember adding it. ;)

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## Full Stack Development with React and Spring Boot

One of the easiest ways to get started with React is by using [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/) (CRA). You install it locally, then run `create-react-app <project>` to generate a React application with minimal dependencies. It uses webpack under-the-covers to build the project, launch a web server, and run its tests.

> Spring Boot has a similar tool, called [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/). Spring Initializer is a bit different than CRA because it's a website (and API) that you can create applications with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spring Boot has a similar tool called [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/). Spring Initializer is a bit different than CRA because it's a website (and API) that you can create applications with.
```

> Today, I'll show you how to build a Flickr clone with React and Spring Boot. However, I'm going to cheat. Rather than building everything using the aforementioned tools, I'm going to use JHipster. JHipster is an application generator that initially only supported Angular and Spring Boot. Now it supports Angular, React, and Vue for the frontend. JHipster also has support for [Kotlin, Micronaut, Quarkus, .NET, and Node.js](https://www.jhipster.tech/modules/official-blueprints/) on the backend.

Reviewer 2: I get around 35% plagiarism in Grammarly for this section, especially the 'I'm going to use JHipster..' part. Can you rephrase/reword that?

Author: Is this still an issue if they're my words from a previous post? https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/06/25/react-spring-boot-photo-gallery-pwa

Reviewer 2: Good point, I haven't noticed that's your article. Then everything is fine.

In this tutorial, we'll use React since it seems to be [the most popular](https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?q=angular,react,vuejs) frontend framework nowadays. 

## Get Started with JHipster 7

> To get started with JHipster, you'll need a fast internet connection and Node.js installed. The project recommends you use the latest LTS (Long Term Support) version, which is 14.7.6 at the time of this writing. To run the app, you'll need to have Java 11 installed. If you have Git installed, JHipster will auto-commit your project after creating it. This will allow you to upgrade between versions.

Reviewer 2: This section gives 62% plagiarism, you have to rephrase that with your own words

Author: Where does it say it's plagiarized from? What if they're my words?

Reviewer 2: The same as above it showed your previous article. I'm closing this as well as the previous one

Run the following command to install JHipster:

```shell
npm i -g generator-jhipster@7
```

To create a full-stack app with JHipster, create a directory, and run `jhipster` in it:

```shell
mkdir full-stack-java
cd full-stack-java
jhipster
```

JHipster will prompt you for the type of application to create and what technologies you'd like to include. For this tutorial, make the following choices:

> | Question | Answer |

Reviewer 2: let's maybe wrap this into ```bash  block

Author: It's a table now. I think it might look better if we just specified the defaults to override, but I had a hard time finding the words to express that.

|---|---|
| Type of application? | `Monolithic application` |
| Name? | `flickr2` |
| Spring WebFlux? | `No` |
| Java package name? | `com.auth0.flickr2`  |
| Type of authentication? | `OAuth 2.0 / OIDC` |
| Type of database? | `SQL` |
| Production database? | `PostgreSQL` |
| Development database? | `H2 with disk-based persistence` |
| Which cache? | `Ehcache` |
| Use Hibernate 2nd level cache? | `Yes` |
| Maven or Gradle? | `Maven` |
| Use the JHipster Registry? | `No` |

> | Other technologies? | `<blank>` |

Reviewer 2: Selecting blank in the Other technologies section is a little bit tricky (JHipster gives you a hint on how to select options, not how to leave it blank. Let's add a sentence that a user should press `Esc` in this case

Author: If you just hit enter, it selects the default, which is blank.

| Client framework? | `React` |
| Admin UI? | `Yes` |
| Bootswatch theme? | `United` > `Dark` |
| Enable i18n? | `Yes` |
| Native language of application? | `English` |

> | Additional languages? | `Portuguese (Brazilian)` |

Reviewer 2: maybe omit additional languages and i18n? Or mention, that a reader can choose his own language, not only Portuguese ;)

Author: Of course.

| Additional testing frameworks? | `Cypress` |
| Install other generators? | `No` |

Press `Enter` and JHipster will create your app in the current directory and run `npm install` to install all the dependencies specified in `package.json`.

### Verify Everything Works with Cypress and Keycloak

> When you choose OAuth 2.0 and OIDC for authentication, the users are stored outside of the application, rather than in it. You need to configure an identity provider (IdP) to store your users and allow your app to retrieve information about them. By default, JHipster ships with a Keycloak file for Docker Compose. A default set of users and groups is imported at startup, and it has a client registered for your JHipster app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you choose OAuth 2.0 and OIDC for authentication, the users are stored outside of the application rather than in it. You need to configure an identity provider (IdP) to store your users and allow your app to retrieve information about them. By default, JHipster ships with a Keycloak file for Docker Compose. A default set of users and groups is imported at startup, and it has a client registered for your JHipster app.
```

Author: Will fix.

Here's what the `keycloak.yml` looks like in your app's `src/main/docker` directory:

```yaml
# This configuration is intended for development purpose, it's **your** responsibility to harden it for production
version: '3.8'
services:
  keycloak:
    image: jboss/keycloak:14.0.0
    command:
      [
        '-b',
        '0.0.0.0',
        '-Dkeycloak.migration.action=import',
        '-Dkeycloak.migration.provider=dir',
        '-Dkeycloak.migration.dir=/opt/jboss/keycloak/realm-config',
        '-Dkeycloak.migration.strategy=OVERWRITE_EXISTING',
        '-Djboss.socket.binding.port-offset=1000',
        '-Dkeycloak.profile.feature.upload_scripts=enabled',
      ]
    volumes:
      - ./realm-config:/opt/jboss/keycloak/realm-config
    environment:
      - KEYCLOAK_USER=admin
      - KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD=admin
      - DB_VENDOR=h2
    # If you want to expose these ports outside your dev PC,
    # remove the "127.0.0.1:" prefix
    ports:
      - 127.0.0.1:9080:9080
      - 127.0.0.1:9443:9443
      - 127.0.0.1:10990:10990
```

Start Keycloak with the following command in a terminal window.

> [Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) if you don't already have it.

Reviewer 2: let's move this installation guide to th _prerequisites_ section

Reviewer 2: also, let's mention, that this command should be run from the project's root directory

Author: Good ideas.

```shell

> docker-compose -f src/main/docker/keycloak.yml up

Reviewer 2: let's add a few lines of logs after successful startup so that a reader can verify everything works

```

You can verify everything works by starting your app with Maven:

```shell
./mvnw
```

Open another terminal to run the Cypress tests:

```shell

> npm run e2e

Reviewer 2: I get `npm ERR! Missing script: "e2e"` when I run this command

Author: You should get this if you selected Cypress when creating the app.

Reviewer 2: Yep, that was the case, thanks for the tip

```

You should see output like the following:

```shell
  (Run Finished)

       Spec                                              Tests  Passing  Failing  Pending  Skipped
  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ ✔  administration/administration.spec.      00:08        5        5        -        -        - │
  │    ts                                                                                          │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ✔  All specs passed!                        00:08        5        5        -        -        -
```

## Change your Identity Provider to Auth0

> JHipster uses Spring Security's OAuth 2.0 and OIDC support to configure which IdP it uses. When using Spring Security with Spring Boot, you can configure most settings in a properties files. You can even override properties with environment variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JHipster uses Spring Security's OAuth 2.0 and OIDC support to configure which IdP it uses. When using Spring Security with Spring Boot, you can configure most settings in a properties file. You can even override properties with environment variables.
```

Author: Good catch.

To switch from Keycloak to Auth0, you only need to override the default properties (for Spring Security OAuth). You don't even need to write any code!

> To see how it works, create a `.auth0.env` file with the code below to override the default OIDC settings:

Reviewer 2: where should I create that file?

Author: In the root directory of the project. I'll make a note.

```shell
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_PROVIDER_OIDC_ISSUER_URI=https://<your-auth0-domain>/
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_ID=<your-client-id>
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=<your-client-secret>
export JHIPSTER_SECURITY_OAUTH2_AUDIENCE=https://<your-auth0-domain>/api/v2/
```

**WARNING:** Modify your existing `.gitignore` file to have `*.env` so you don't accidentally check in your secrets!

You'll need to create a new web application in Auth0 and fill in the `<...>` placeholders before this works. 

### Create an OpenID Connect App on Auth0

Log in to your Auth0 account (or [sign up](https://auth0.com/signup) if you don't have an account). You should have a unique domain like `dev-xxx.eu.auth0.com`. 

> Go to **Applications** > **Create Application**. Use a name like `JHipster Baby!`, select `Regular Web Applications`, and click **Create**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Press **Create Application** button in [Applications section](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications). Use a name like `JHipster Baby!`, select `Regular Web Applications`, and click **Create**.
```

Author: Will fix.

Switch to the **Settings** tab and configure your application settings:

- Allowed Callback URLs: `http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc`
- Allowed Logout URLs: `http://localhost:8080/`

> Navigate to **User Management** > **Roles** and create new roles named `ROLE_ADMIN` and `ROLE_USER`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the [roles](https://manage.auth0.com/#/roles) section, create new roles named `ROLE_ADMIN` and `ROLE_USER`.
```

Author: I like it. We can't do this with Okta!

> Go to **User Management** > **Users** and create a new user account. Click on the **Role** tab to assign the roles you just created to the new account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a new user account in the [users](https://manage.auth0.com/#/users) section. Click on the **Role** tab to assign the roles you just created to the new account.
```

Author: Will fix.

Next, head to **Auth Pipeline** > **Rules** > **Create**. Select the `Empty rule` template. Provide a meaningful name like `Group claims` and replace the Script content with the following.

```js
function(user, context, callback) {
  user.preferred_username = user.email;
  const roles = (context.authorization || {}).roles;

  function prepareCustomClaimKey(claim) {
    return `https://www.jhipster.tech/${claim}`;
  }

  const rolesClaim = prepareCustomClaimKey('roles');

  if (context.idToken) {
    context.idToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }

  if (context.accessToken) {
    context.accessToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }

  callback(null, user, context);
}
```

> Click **Save changes** to continue.

Reviewer 2: let's add a sentence or two describing what's happening in the code above

Author: Good idea. I added a couple sentences and code.

**NOTE**: Want to have all these steps automated for you? Vote for [this issue](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli/issues/351) in the Auth0 CLI project.

### Run Your JHipster App with Auth0

Stop your JHipster app using **Ctrl+C**, set your Auth0 properties in `.auth0.env`, and start your app again.

```shell
source .auth0.env
./mvnw
```

> **NOTE:** If you're on Windows, you may need to install the [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) for this command to work.

Reviewer 2: let's move it to the _prerequisites_ section

_Voilà_ - your full stack app is now using Auth0! Open your favorite browser to `http://localhost:8080`. 

> {% img blog/full-stack-java/jhipster-homepage.png alt:"JHipster default homepage" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer 2: let's also describe in a sentence or two what a reader should see. Remember, that images can't replace text

Author: I added a sentence.

Click **sign in** and you'll be redirected to Auth0 to log in.

{% img blog/full-stack-java/auth0-login.png alt:"Auth0 Login" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

After entering your credentials, you'll be redirected back to your app. 

{% img blog/full-stack-java/jhipster-logged-in.png alt:"Authenticated!" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

## Test Your Full Stack Java App with Cypress

JHipster has Auth0 support built-in, so you can specify your credentials for Cypress tests and automate your UI testing!

To do this, specify the credentials for the Auth0 user you just created and run `npm run e2e`.

```shell

> export CYPRESS_E2E_USERNAME=<new-username>

Reviewer 2: shouldn't we place those variables in .env or a similar file?

Author: I added the following TIP:

> **TIP:** If you want to use a `.env` for your environment variables, you can use [cypress-dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cypress-dotenv). You can also put these values in `cypress.json`, but since this file will be in source control, it's a bad practice to put your secrets in it.

My data model for this app has `Album`, `Photo`, and `Tag` entities and sets up relationships between them. Below is a screenshot of what it looks like in JDL Studio.

{% img blog/full-stack-java/jdl-studio.png alt:"JDL Studio" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Copy the JDL below and save it in a `flickr2.jdl` file in the root directory of your project.

```
entity Album {
  title String required
  description TextBlob
  created Instant
}

entity Photo {
  title String required
  description TextBlob
  image ImageBlob required
  height Integer
  width Integer
  taken Instant
  uploaded Instant
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Album{user(login)} to User
  Photo{album(title)} to Album
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Photo{tag(name)} to Tag{photo}
}

paginate Album with pagination
paginate Photo, Tag with infinite-scroll
```

You can generate entities and [CRUD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete) code (Java for Spring Boot; TypeScript and JSX for React) by using the following command:

```shell
jhipster jdl flickr2.jdl
```

When prompted, type `a` to allow overwriting of existing files.

> This process will create Liquibase changelog files (to create your database tables), entities, repositories, Spring MVC controllers, and all the React code that's necessary to create, read, update, and delete your entities. It'll even generate JUnit unit tests, Jest unit tests, and Cypress end-to-end tests!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This process will create Liquibase changelog files (to create your database tables), entities, repositories, Spring MVC controllers, and all the React code necessary to create, read, update, and delete your entities. It'll even generate JUnit unit tests, Jest unit tests, and Cypress end-to-end tests!
```

> After the process completes, you can restart your app, log in, and browse through the **Entities** menu. Try adding some data to confirm everything works.

Reviewer 2: well, I did what you said here, but unfortunately, I don't see any _Entities_ menu :( Where should it be visible?

Author: It should be in the top right, before Administration.

Reviewer 2: Ok, so I compared my generated homepage and yours (in the screenshot) and I only have _Home_ and _Account_ tabs in the navbar. I think I'm 99,99% sure that I followed your post step by step to this moment ;) I see for example administration reducers and slices in the code. What's more, I don't see any errors in the terminal. Do you have any idea what I'm doing wrong here?

Author: Can you post the contents of your `flickr2.jdl` file and the output from running `jhipster jdl flickr2.jdl`. Maybe sure you're running this command from inside your app's directory.

FYI... the deployment to Heroku needs a fix for JHipster that's coming in v7.3.0. I plan to QA everything again once that's released. Hopefully it'll happen sometime this week.

Reviewer 2: Sure, the content of flickr2.jdl is copypasted 1 to 1 from this article:
```
entity Album {
   title String required
   description TextBlob
   created Instant
}

entity Photo {
   title String required
   description TextBlob
   image ImageBlob required
   height Integer
   width Integer
   taken Instant
   uploaded Instant
}

entity Tag {
  name String required minlength(2)
}

relationship ManyToOne {
  Album{user(login)} to User
  Photo{album(title)} to Album
}

relationship ManyToMany {
  Photo{tag(name)} to Tag{photo}
}

paginate Album with pagination
paginate Photo, Tag with infinite-scroll

````

Here's the jhipster jdl output:
```
INFO! Using JHipster version installed locally in current project's node_modules
INFO! Executing import-jdl flickr2.jdl
INFO! The JDL is being parsed.
warn: An Entity name 'User' was used: 'User' is an entity created by default by JHipster. All relationships toward it will be kept but any attributes and relationships from it will be disregarded.
INFO! No change in entity configurations, no entities were updated.
INFO! The JDL has been successfully parsed
INFO! Generating 0 applications.
Congratulations, JHipster execution is complete!
Sponsored with ❤️  by @oktadev.

```
and here's a few last logs from starting the app:
```
2021-10-09 00:03:30.730 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] com.auth0.flickr2.config.WebConfigurer   : Registering CORS filter
2021-10-09 00:03:30.768  INFO 5912 --- [  restartedMain] com.auth0.flickr2.config.WebConfigurer   : Web application configuration, using profiles: dev
2021-10-09 00:03:30.769 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] com.auth0.flickr2.config.WebConfigurer   : Initialize H2 console
2021-10-09 00:03:30.778  INFO 5912 --- [  restartedMain] com.auth0.flickr2.config.WebConfigurer   : Web application fully configured
2021-10-09 00:03:31.042 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.ehcache.core.Ehcache-usersByLogin      : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.060 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.ehcache.core.Ehcache-usersByEmail      : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.063 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.e.c.E.auth0.flickr2.domain.User        : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.065 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.e.c.E.auth0.flickr2.domain.Authority   : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.067 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.e.c.E.a.f.domain.User.authorities      : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.069 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.e.c.E.auth0.flickr2.domain.Album       : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.071 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.e.c.E.auth0.flickr2.domain.Photo       : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.074 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.e.c.E.auth0.flickr2.domain.Photo.tags  : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.076 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.e.c.E.auth0.flickr2.domain.Tag         : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.078 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.e.c.E.auth0.flickr2.domain.Tag.photos  : Initialize successful.
2021-10-09 00:03:31.090 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.a.flickr2.config.AsyncConfiguration    : Creating Async Task Executor
2021-10-09 00:03:31.172 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.a.f.config.LiquibaseConfiguration      : Configuring Liquibase
2021-10-09 00:03:31.382  WARN 5912 --- [flickr-2-task-1] t.j.c.liquibase.AsyncSpringLiquibase     : Starting Liquibase asynchronously, your database might not be ready at startup!
2021-10-09 00:03:32.150 DEBUG 5912 --- [flickr-2-task-1] t.j.c.liquibase.AsyncSpringLiquibase     : Liquibase has updated your database in 767 ms
2021-10-09 00:03:34.254 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] t.j.c.apidoc.SpringfoxAutoConfiguration  : Starting OpenAPI docs
2021-10-09 00:03:34.265 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] t.j.c.apidoc.SpringfoxAutoConfiguration  : Started OpenAPI docs in 11 ms
2021-10-09 00:03:34.296 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.a.f.config.DatabaseConfiguration       : H2 database is available on port 18080
2021-10-09 00:03:34.536 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] s.n.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection  : sun.net.www.MessageHeader@1335f5685 pairs: {GET /auth/realms/jhipster/.well-known/openid-configuration HTTP/1.1: null}{Accept: application/json, application/*+json}{User-Agent: Java/14}{Host: localhost:9080}{Connection: keep-alive}
2021-10-09 00:03:34.541 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] s.n.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection  : sun.net.www.MessageHeader@4bdec35211 pairs: {null: HTTP/1.1 200 OK}{Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, no-transform, no-store}{X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block}{X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN}{Referrer-Policy: no-referrer}{Date: Fri, 08 Oct 2021 22:03:34 GMT}{Connection: keep-alive}{Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains}{X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff}{Content-Type: application/json}{Content-Length: 3829}
2021-10-09 00:03:34.555 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] s.n.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection  : sun.net.www.MessageHeader@44fd25385 pairs: {GET /auth/realms/jhipster/protocol/openid-connect/certs HTTP/1.1: null}{User-Agent: Java/14}{Host: localhost:9080}{Accept: text/html, image/gif, image/jpeg, *; q=.2, */*; q=.2}{Connection: keep-alive}
2021-10-09 00:03:34.562 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] s.n.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection  : sun.net.www.MessageHeader@df9077211 pairs: {null: HTTP/1.1 200 OK}{Cache-Control: no-cache}{X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block}{X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN}{Referrer-Policy: no-referrer}{Date: Fri, 08 Oct 2021 22:03:34 GMT}{Connection: keep-alive}{Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains}{X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff}{Content-Type: application/json}{Content-Length: 1466}
2021-10-09 00:03:34.602 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] jdk.event.security                       : X509Certificate: Alg:SHA256withRSA, Serial:17c61ebb785, Subject:CN=jhipster, Issuer:CN=jhipster, Key type:RSA, Length:2048, Cert Id:-1470580349, Valid from:08.10.2021, 23:58, Valid until:09.10.2031, 00:00
2021-10-09 00:03:35.202 DEBUG 5912 --- [  restartedMain] c.a.f.w.f.OAuth2RefreshTokensWebFilter   : Filter 'OAuth2RefreshTokensWebFilter' configured for use
2021-10-09 00:03:35.289  INFO 5912 --- [  restartedMain] org.jboss.threads                        : JBoss Threads version 3.1.0.Final
2021-10-09 00:03:35.686  INFO 5912 --- [  restartedMain] com.auth0.flickr2.Flickr2App             : Started Flickr2App in 8.686 seconds (JVM running for 9.2)
```
it seems like the entities are there but there are missing from the UI

Author: When QAing this post, I found that this happened when the new user's email wasn't activated. I added the following to the post:

> _Make sure your new user's email is verified before attempting to log in!_

I think if you use Google to log in, verification isn't necessary.

By now, you can see that JHipster is pretty powerful. It recognized that you had an image property of `ImageBlob` type and created the logic necessary to upload and store images in your database! _Booyah!_

## Add Image EXIF Processing in Your Spring Boot API

> The `Photo` entity has a few properties that can be calculated by reading the EXIF (Exchangeable Image File Format) data from the uploaded photo. You might ask, how do you do that in Java?

Reviewer 2: maybe let's add a link to some site explaining what is EXIF in detail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Photo` entity has a few properties that can be calculated by reading the he uploaded photo's EXIF (Exchangeable Image File Format) data. You might ask, how do you do that in Java?
```

Author: Will fix.

Log in and navigate to **Entities** > **Photos** in the top nav bar. You should be able to upload photos and see the results in a nice grid at the top of the list.

//todo: update screenshot during QA

{% img blog/full-stack-java/photo-gallery.png alt:"Gallery with Photos" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

//todo: update GitHub links
You can also add a "lightbox" feature to the grid so you can click on photos and zoom in. The [React Photo Gallery docs](https://neptunian.github.io/react-photo-gallery/) show how to do this. I've integrated it into the example for this post, but I won't show the code here for the sake of brevity. You can see the [final `photo.tsx` with Lightbox added on GitHub](https://github.com/oktadeveloper/okta-react-photo-gallery-example/blob/master/src/main/webapp/app/entities/photo/photo.tsx) or a [diff of the changes necessary](https://github.com/oktadeveloper/okta-react-photo-gallery-example/commit/47f9ceab2b00f1d7f41d286686c9159f79decc11).

> ## Make Your Full Stack Java App Into a PWA

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking whether you should expand the PWA shortcut in the heading. If I'm not wrong it wasn't used before in this article, so some readers may have problems with that, what do you think?

Author: I added a sentence below. Does that help?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it's enough 👍

> 1. Your app must be served over HTTPS

Reviewer 2: Do those 3 points relate to the PWA? I think we're missing some entry sentence that describes briefly what those points relate to

Author: I added an intro sentence from https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/07/20/the-ultimate-guide-to-progressive-web-applications. Is it OK to plagiarize my own words?

To register a service worker, open `src/main/webapp/index.html` and uncomment the following block of code.

```html
<script>
  if ('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
    navigator.serviceWorker.register('./service-worker.js').then(function () {
      console.log('Service Worker Registered');
    });
  }
</script>
```

The final feature &mdash; a webapp manifest &mdash; is included at `src/main/webapp/manifest.webapp`. It defines an app name, colors, and icons. You might want to adjust these to fit your app.

## Deploy Your React + Spring Boot App to Heroku

To deploy your app to Heroku, you'll first need to install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli). You can confirm it's installed by running `heroku --version`.

> If you don't have a Heroku account, go to [heroku.com](https://www.heroku.com/) and sign up. Don't worry, it's free, and chances are you'll love the experience.

Run `heroku login` to log in to your account, then start the deployment process with JHipster:

```
jhipster heroku
```

> This will start the [Heroku sub-generator](https://www.jhipster.tech/heroku/) that asks you a couple questions about your app: what you want to name it and whether you want to deploy it to a US region or EU. Then it'll prompt you to choose between building locally or with Git on Heroku's servers. Choose Git, so you don't have to upload a fat JAR. When prompted to use Okta for OIDC, type `N`. Then, the deployment process will begin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will start the [Heroku sub-generator](https://www.jhipster.tech/heroku/) that asks you a couple of questions about your app: what you want to name it and whether you want to deploy it to a US region or EU. Then it'll prompt you to choose between building locally or with Git on Heroku's servers. Choose Git, so you don't have to upload a fat JAR. When prompted to use Okta for OIDC, type `N`. Then, the deployment process will begin.
```

Author: Will add.

  JHIPSTER_SECURITY_OAUTH2_AUDIENCE="https://<your-auth0-domain>/api/v2/"
```

Then, log in to your Auth0 account, navigate to your app, and add your Heroku URLs as valid redirect URIs:

- Allowed Callback URLs: `https://flickr-2.herokuapp.com/login/oauth2/code/oidc`
- Allowed Logout URLs: `https://flickr-2.herokuapp.com`

After Heroku restarts your app, open it, and log in.

{% img blog/full-stack-java/app-on-heroku.png alt:"Running on Heroku!" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Then, test it with [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/) (using the Lighthouse tab in Chrome developer tools). Looks pretty good, eh?! 💯

{% img blog/full-stack-java/lighthouse-score.png alt:"Lighthouse Score 💯" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

## Learn More About Full Stack Java Development

This tutorial shows you how to streamline full-stack Java development with JHipster. You developed a working application with a React frontend and a Spring Boot backend. You can find the app created in this tutorial on GitHub, in the [auth0-full-stack-java-example](https://github.com/oktadev/auth0-full-stack-java-example) repository.

> Since I didn't show you a lot about coding in Java, React, or Spring Boot, here are some helpful resources for that.

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking whether this section with helpful resources should be in prerequisites or not. In that way, someone can go through those tutorials before starting analyzing this post. What do you think about it?

Author: In the past, we've tried not to give too many links in the beginning for fear of folks leaving the post and not coming back. I think this is a good idea though, so I'll make this change.

Create a new user account in the [users](https://manage.auth0.com/#/users) section. Click on the **Role** tab to assign the roles you just created to the new account. 

_Make sure your new user's email is verified before attempting to log in!_

Next, head to **Auth Pipeline** > **Rules** > **Create**. Select the `Empty rule` template. Provide a meaningful name like `Group claims` and replace the Script content with the following.

```js
function(user, context, callback) {
  user.preferred_username = user.email;
  const roles = (context.authorization || {}).roles;

  function prepareCustomClaimKey(claim) {
    return `https://www.jhipster.tech/${claim}`;
  }

  const rolesClaim = prepareCustomClaimKey('roles');

  if (context.idToken) {
    context.idToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }

  if (context.accessToken) {
    context.accessToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }

  callback(null, user, context);
}
```

This code is adding the user's roles to a custom claim (prefixed with `https://www.jhipster.tech/roles`). This claim is mapped to Spring Security authorities in `SecurityUtils.java`.

```java
public static List<GrantedAuthority> extractAuthorityFromClaims(Map<String, Object> claims) {

>     return mapRolesToGrantedAuthorities(getRolesFromClaims(claims));

Reviewer 2: if you're showing this extract method, I think you should also show mapRolesTo... and getRolesFrom.. methods so that everything can be read from that code block

Author: I added this in https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog/pull/891/commits/64a726b66c2dd01225229c949765f5b08007b6a6.

                OidcUserAuthority oidcUserAuthority = (OidcUserAuthority) authority;
                mappedAuthorities.addAll(SecurityUtils.extractAuthorityFromClaims(oidcUserAuthority.getUserInfo().getClaims()));
            }
        });
        return mappedAuthorities;
    };
}
```

Click **Save changes** to continue.

**NOTE**: Want to have all these steps automated for you? Vote for [this issue](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli/issues/351) in the Auth0 CLI project.

### Run Your JHipster App with Auth0

Stop your JHipster app using **Ctrl+C**, set your Auth0 properties in `.auth0.env`, and start your app again.

```shell
source .auth0.env
./mvnw
```

_Voilà_ - your full stack app is now using Auth0! Open your favorite browser to `http://localhost:8080`. 

{% img blog/full-stack-java/jhipster-homepage.png alt:"JHipster default homepage" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

You should see your app's homepage with a link to sign in. Click **sign in** and you'll be redirected to Auth0 to log in.

{% img blog/full-stack-java/auth0-login.png alt:"Auth0 Login" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

After entering your credentials, you'll be redirected back to your app. 

> {% img blog/full-stack-java/jhipster-logged-in.png alt:"Authenticated!" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer 2: one question, on that screen there are entites and administration tabs on the navbar, should I have them at this moment (right after generating the project?)

Author: These menu items won't show up until you've logged in to the app.

Reviewer 2: So I'm still not seeing _Entities_ and _Administration_ menu tabs :( I'm doing exactly what's written in this post, e2e tests were all green to this moment, added this app in auth0, added roles, restarted app, logged in via auth0 and still nothing. There is no error in logs. Do you know what might be wrong here? Can you do steps from this post from scratch and see, whether everything works correctly or not?

Reviewer 2: I can send you logs or anything you need to help solve this problem

Author: I did do the steps from scratch 8 days ago when JHipster v7.3.0 was released. https://github.com/oktadev/auth0-full-stack-java-example

Can you make sure that roles are assigned to the user you're trying to log in with?

<img width="1040" alt="Screen Shot 2021-10-20 at 3 09 33 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/138172504-ae10f6df-07db-412e-be66-04c70b81cdfa.png">
.

Author: One other thing I thought of: do you have your `JHIPSTER_SECURITY_OAUTH2_AUDIENCE` environment variable (in `.auth0.env`) properly configured? Mine is:

```
export JHIPSTER_SECURITY_OAUTH2_AUDIENCE=https://jhipster.us.auth0.com/api/v2/
```

This matches what I have in Auth0 under **Applications** > **APIs**:

<img width="843" alt="Screen Shot 2021-10-20 at 10 38 26 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17892/138212478-de1d5a35-bdd2-460a-b4dd-8320fa30b8a6.png">

Author: If both roles and the audience is configured correctly, is there anything in the JHipster app's logs that might indicate the problem after you authenticate with Auth0?

Author: @maciejglowka I created a brand new Auth0 account tonight and ran through the tutorial again. Everything worked for me. Some things to check:

1. Did you activate the new user you created?
2. Did you update `.auth0.env` with the values from your JHipster app on Auth0?

Here's a PR to update the example for JHipster 7.3.1: https://github.com/oktadev/auth0-full-stack-java-example/pull/1

Reviewer 2: It works! I found out that the user I was using had his email not verified. After that, everything worked as expected

```java
import com.drew.imaging.ImageMetadataReader;
import com.drew.imaging.ImageProcessingException;
import com.drew.metadata.Metadata;
import com.drew.metadata.MetadataException;
import com.drew.metadata.exif.ExifSubIFDDirectory;
import com.drew.metadata.jpeg.JpegDirectory;

import javax.xml.bind.DatatypeConverter;
import java.io.BufferedInputStream;
import java.io.ByteArrayInputStream;
import java.io.IOException;
import java.io.InputStream;

import java.time.Instant;
import java.util.Date;

public class PhotoResource {
    ...

    public ResponseEntity<Photo> createPhoto(@Valid @RequestBody Photo photo) throws Exception {
        log.debug("REST request to save Photo : {}", photo);
        if (photo.getId() != null) {
            throw new BadRequestAlertException("A new photo cannot already have an ID", ENTITY_NAME, "idexists");
        }

        try {
            photo = setMetadata(photo);
        } catch (ImageProcessingException ipe) {
            log.error(ipe.getMessage());
        }

        Photo result = photoRepository.save(photo);
        return ResponseEntity.created(new URI("/api/photos/" + result.getId()))

>             .headers(HeaderUtil.createEntityCreationAlert(ENTITY_NAME, result.getId().toString()))

Reviewer 2: is this HeaderUtil updated to JHipster 7.3.1? Intellij shows, that that method with those arguments does not exist in HeaderUtil class

Author: Good catch. It was correct in the `jhipster-7.3.1` branch on the example repo, but not here. Fixed in https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog/pull/891/commits/214fdaa03e91b3928167071f29cd90610d66f87d.

        InputStream inputStream = new ByteArrayInputStream(data2);
        BufferedInputStream bis = new BufferedInputStream(inputStream);
        Metadata metadata = ImageMetadataReader.readMetadata(bis);
        ExifSubIFDDirectory directory = metadata.getFirstDirectoryOfType(ExifSubIFDDirectory.class);

        if (directory != null) {
            Date date = directory.getDateDigitized();
            if (date != null) {
                photo.setTaken(date.toInstant());
            }
        }

        if (photo.getTaken() == null) {
            log.debug("Photo EXIF date digitized not available, setting taken on date to now...");
            photo.setTaken(Instant.now());
        }

        photo.setUploaded(Instant.now());

        JpegDirectory jpgDirectory = metadata.getFirstDirectoryOfType(JpegDirectory.class);
        if (jpgDirectory != null) {
            photo.setHeight(jpgDirectory.getImageHeight());
            photo.setWidth(jpgDirectory.getImageWidth());
        }

        return photo;
    }
    ...
}
```

Since you're extracting the information, you can remove the fields from the UI and tests so the user cannot set these values.

> In `src/main/webapp/app/entities/photo/photo-update.tsx`, hide the metadata so users can't edit it. Rather than displaying the `height`, `width`, `taken`, and `uploaded` values, hide them. You can do this by searching for `photo-height`, grabbing the elements (and its following three elements) and adding them to a `metadata` variable just before the `return` block.

Reviewer 2: I think you can add a short info where to look for this return block, e.g. say, that it's in the defaultValues lambda function (I think this might help a reader to locate the place to put the code below)

Author: I added a better explanation with more code in https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog/pull/891/commits/848762e4daf99e70c89c930cc3fd3373855c2f9e.

{% raw %}
```tsx
<ValidatedBlobField
  label={translate('flickr2App.photo.image')}
  id="photo-image"
  name="image"
  data-cy="image"
  isImage
  accept="image/*"
  validate={{
    required: { value: true, message: translate('entity.validation.required') },
  }}
/>
{metadataRows}
<ValidatedField id="photo-album" name="albumId" data-cy="album" label={translate('flickr2App.photo.album')} type="select">
  <option value="" key="0" />
{albums
    ? albums.map(otherEntity => (
        <option value={otherEntity.id} key={otherEntity.id}>
          {otherEntity.title}
        </option>
      ))
    : null}
</ValidatedField>
```
{% endraw %}

In `src/test/javascript/cypress/integration/entity/photo.spec.ts`, remove the code that sets the data in these fields:

```ts
cy.get(`[data-cy="height"]`).type('99459').should('have.value', '99459');
cy.get(`[data-cy="width"]`).type('61514').should('have.value', '61514');
cy.get(`[data-cy="taken"]`).type('2021-10-11T16:46').should('have.value', '2021-10-11T16:46');
cy.get(`[data-cy="uploaded"]`).type('2021-10-11T15:23').should('have.value', '2021-10-11T15:23'););
```

> Stop your Maven process and run `./mvwn` again. Open a new terminal window, set your Auth0 credentials, and run `npm run e2e` to make sure everything still works. 

Author: ```suggestion
Stop your Maven process, run `source .auth0.env`, then `./mvwn` again. Open a new terminal window, set your Auth0 credentials, and run `npm run e2e` to make sure everything still works. 
```

```shell
export CYPRESS_E2E_USERNAME=<auth0-username>
export CYPRESS_E2E_PASSWORD=<auth0-password>

> npm run e2e

Reviewer 2: So I can upload a photo manually and it works, however when I run e2e tests, I get one test failing from 6 available in album, photo, and tag specs. The error is as follows:
``` bash
http://localhost:8080/api/logout

The response we received from your web server was:

  > 403: Forbidden

This was considered a failure because the status code was not `2xx` or `3xx`.

If you do not want status codes to cause failures pass the option: `failOnStatusCode: false`

-----------------------------------------------------------

The request we sent was:

Method: POST
URL: http://localhost:8080/api/logout
Headers: {
  "Connection": "keep-alive",
  "X-XSRF-TOKEN": "7329e57d-cc1a-49bf-8282-ea84c9e12a63",
  "origin": null,
  "user-agent": "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/95.0.4638.54 Safari/537.36",
  "accept": "*/*",
  "cookie": "XSRF-TOKEN=7329e57d-cc1a-49bf-8282-ea84c9e12a63; JSESSIONID=7YwZ12zBJDhsyC2O6QXs4LrvOXn8ku7auZiIYAQB",
  "accept-encoding": "gzip, deflate",
  "content-length": 0
}

-----------------------------------------------------------

The response we got was:

Status: 403 - Forbidden
Headers: {
  "expires": "0",
  "cache-control": "no-cache, no-store, max-age=0, must-revalidate",
  "x-xss-protection": "1; mode=block",
  "pragma": "no-cache",
  "x-frame-options": "DENY",
  "referrer-policy": "strict-origin-when-cross-origin",
  "content-security-policy": "default-src 'self'; frame-src 'self' data:; script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' https://storage.googleapis.com; style-src 'self' https://fonts.googleapis.com 'unsafe-inline'; img-src 'self' data:; font-src 'self' https://fonts.gstatic.com data:",
  "date": "Tue, 26 Oct 2021 23:10:12 GMT",
  "connection": "keep-alive",
  "vary": "Origin, Access-Control-Request-Method, Access-Control-Request-Headers",
  "x-content-type-options": "nosniff",
  "permissions-policy": "camera=(), fullscreen=(self), geolocation=(), gyroscope=(), magnetometer=(), microphone=(), midi=(), payment=(), sync-xhr=()",
  "transfer-encoding": "chunked"
}
Body: Invalid CORS request

```

so basically a CORS error. Do you have any idea why that happens?

Author: This happens because of Auth0 rate limiting. If you look in your server logs, you'll see that you've run out of requests allowed.

I had a long discussion with their support team about this. That's why I recommend using Keycloak for e2e tests just after this. There's an open issue for JHipster to use Cypress' session feature to workaround these rate limits. https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/16545

Reviewer 2: Ok, thanks for clarifying this 👍

        authorities.forEach(authority -> {
            // Check for OidcUserAuthority because Spring Security 5.2 returns
            // each scope as a GrantedAuthority, which we don't care about.
            if (authority instanceof OidcUserAuthority) {
                OidcUserAuthority oidcUserAuthority = (OidcUserAuthority) authority;
                mappedAuthorities.addAll(SecurityUtils.extractAuthorityFromClaims(oidcUserAuthority.getUserInfo().getClaims()));
            }
        });
        return mappedAuthorities;
    };
}
```

Click **Save changes** to continue.

**NOTE**: Want to have all these steps automated for you? Vote for [this issue](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli/issues/351) in the Auth0 CLI project.

### Run Your JHipster App with Auth0

Stop your JHipster app using **Ctrl+C**, set your Auth0 properties in `.auth0.env`, and start your app again.

```shell
source .auth0.env
./mvnw
```

_Voilà_ - your full stack app is now using Auth0! Open your favorite browser to `http://localhost:8080`. 

{% img blog/full-stack-java/jhipster-homepage.png alt:"JHipster default homepage" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> You should see your app's homepage with a link to sign in. Click **sign in** and you'll be redirected to Auth0 to log in.

Reviewer 2: One thing I noticed here. I think there's some problem with the text formatting, especially with \` quotes. If you see the text here, you'll see, that the text suddenly becomes blue instead of default white. It's clearly visible in the `Test Your Full Stack Java App with Cypress` section. At auth0 it might cause some render errors on the blog page, can you check the formatting here? Maybe you used different quotes?

Author: It looks fine on the preview site for this post. https://deploy-preview-891--okta-blog.netlify.app/blog/2021/10/16/full-stack-java.html#run-your-jhipster-app-with-auth0

You're right though, there will likely need to be some tweaks for the Auth0 blog.

## Add a React Photo Gallery

You've added metadata extraction to your backend, but your photos still display in a list rather than in a grid (like Flickr). To fix that, you can use the [React Photo Gallery](https://github.com/neptunian/react-photo-gallery) component. Install it using npm:

```bash
npm i react-photo-gallery@8
```

In `src/main/webapp/app/entities/photo/photo.tsx`, add an import for `Gallery`:

```ts
import Gallery from 'react-photo-gallery';
```

Then add the following just after `const { match } = props;`. This adds the photos to a set with source, height, and width information.

```ts
const photoSet = photoList.map(photo => ({
  src: `data:${photo.imageContentType};base64,${photo.image}`,
  width: photo.height > photo.width ? 3 : photo.height === photo.width ? 1 : 4,
  height: photo.height > photo.width ? 4 : photo.height === photo.width ? 1 : 3
}));
```

Next, add a `<Gallery>` component right after the closing `</h2>`.

```tsx
return (
  <div>
    <h2 id="photo-heading" data-cy="PhotoHeading">
      ...
    </h2>
    <Gallery photos={photoSet} />
    ...
);
```

> Since you only modified the front-end code, you can run `npm start` to start an instance of webpack-dev-server that proxies requests to the backend and auto-refreshes your browser (using [Browsersync](https://browsersync.io/)) every time you change any React files.

Reviewer 2: I think that won't work in this example. Npm start starts an instance on port 9000, in auth0 dashboard we added login/logout urls with port 8080. I checked that locally and I get: `Error occured while trying to proxy: localhost:9000/oauth2/authorization/oidc` when trying to log in to navigate to entities section. Let's maybe remove this `npm start` suggestion?

Author: I changed it to the following:

Save all your changes and restart your app.

```shell
source .auth0.env
./mvnw
```

```java
@Override
protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
    http
        ...
    .and()
        .frameOptions()
        .deny()
    .and()
        .requiresChannel()
        .requestMatchers(r -> r.getHeader("X-Forwarded-Proto") != null)
        .requiresSecure()
    .and()
        .authorizeRequests()
        ...
}
```

The [workbox-webpack-plugin](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/modules/workbox-webpack-plugin) is configured already for generating a service worker, but it only works when running your app with a production profile. This is nice because it means your data isn't cached in the browser when you're developing.

To register a service worker, open `src/main/webapp/index.html` and uncomment the following block of code.

```html
<script>
  if ('serviceWorker' in navigator) {
    window.addEventListener('load', function () {
      navigator.serviceWorker.register('/service-worker.js').then(function () {
        console.log('Service Worker Registered');
      });
    });
  }
</script>
```

> The final feature &mdash; a webapp manifest &mdash; is included at `src/main/webapp/manifest.webapp`. It defines an app name, colors, and icons. You might want to adjust these to fit your app.

Reviewer 2: should those `&mdash;` be here?

Author: Yes, they get rendered as —.
